1. Eclipse

Many development frameworks are built on Eclipse, a free, open-source editor that was initially a Java environment but a variety of plug-ins have extended its capabilities considerably. The Eclipse Standard 4.3.2 version, for instance, includes the Eclipse Platform along with the tools required to debug it, plus Java and Plugin Development Tooling and Git and CVS support. If your requirements are different, you can choose from a variety of Eclipse Package Solutions, including tools for Java developers, Scout Developers, RCP and RAP Developers and more.

Languages Supported: C, C++, Python, Perl, PHP, Java, Ruby and more

2.NetBeans

An intuitive, drag-and-drop interface with project templates, binary and static libraries, and many useful functions to make your life simpler, NetBeans is a popular IDE for C and C++ projects. It also supports Fortan and Assembler files, with GNU Debugger Integration and code assistance, NetBeans is a functional IDE for editing existing projects, building on templates or building from scratch on most leading platforms. There are also multiple NetBeans Enterprise IDE Download Bundles with options that support several additional technologies, including Java, PHP, HTML5 and more.

Languages Supported: C, C++, C++11, Fortan, Assembler

3.MonoDevelop

MonoDevelop is a free GNOME IDE designed primarily for C# and other .NET languages, but it’s open to most any language and has some variation in supported languages across platforms. MonoDevelop enables the rapid development of  desktop and ASP.NET web applications for Windows, Linux and Mac platforms, with the option to port applications created with Visual Studio to Max and Linux platforms, allowing for a consistent code base across platforms.

Languages Supported: C#, Visual Basic, Java (IKVM), C/C++, Python, Boo, Vala

4.JCreator 

A powerful IDE for Java, JCreator offers a range of features and functionality in a simple, intuitive interface that can be used easily by developers from beginner to advanced. While many Java-based editors and IDEs are written in Java, JCreator is written in C++ to provide enhanced speed and agility.

Languages Supported: Java

5.Xamarin Studio

Xamarin Studio is a sophisticated IDE for cross-platform mobile application development. Build apps for iOS, Android and Mac, even exploring unfamiliar APIs with code completion. It includes a comprehensive Android UI developer for building the most functional, user-friendly interfaces — without touching a line of XML. Xcode Interface Builder integration enables you to tap into Apple’s interface tools for building iOS apps. 

Languages Supported: C#, extensible for additional language support 

6.Light Table

Light Table is a fully open-source code editor. With a lightweight, streamlined interface that eliminates clutter and enables you to focus on coding, Light Table connects you in real-time to your project whether you’re running on Windows, Linux or OS X.

Languages Supported: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Python